Before we get into declaring and defining overloaded operators for our own classes let's understand
what they are.
We've already seen what operators are and how to use them.
We have traditional operators with traditional meetings.
These include the plus symbol for addition the equal sign for assignment and many more the C++ operators
are defined to work with the primitive or built in C++ types such as integer doubles longs and so forth.
In fact we've already seen that the C++ operators are overloaded to work with different types.
For example the plus symbol can add two integers to doubles and integer and a double and so forth C++
allows us to overload operators for our own user defined types.
This allows our types to behave and feel similar to the built in types when we overload operators.
It can make our code more readable and more rideable.
The only operator that the compiler provides a default implementation for is the assignment operator.
The single equal sign.
That's because the compiler must be able to assign one object to another.
All the other operators that can be overloaded must be explicitly defined by the program.
So what is operator overloading look like from the perspective of using the objects.
Well first let's see how we would write code if we were not overloading operators.
Suppose we've implemented our own class name number and that class can model any kind of number in integer
a double or complex number and a rational number you name it.
If we want to be able to manipulate number object so that we can add them subtract them multiply them
and so forth.
We could implement nonmember functions or member functions to achieve what we want.
So if we wanted to add n b then multiply that result by the quotient of C divided by D.
Our code might look like the first statement if we wanted to use member methods then we need objects
and method names so our code might look like the second statement.
Are these statements very unreadable and very difficult to write.
Maybe it depends on your perspective but the point is that we're adding dividing and multiply and we've
been using these operators to do that since we were little kids in school.
Why can't we use them now.
Of course the answer is that C++ doesn't know what to do with our user defined types.
In most cases it makes no sense to add or multiplier subtract your objects.
For example what does it mean to subtract two player objects and again are multiplied to account objects.
It's totally dependent on what you want to do.
In many cases it doesn't make sense to overload certain operators for your classes.
In those cases don't do it only do it if it makes sense.
In this example I would argue that it does make sense since the users of the number class would know
the meaning and how to use those operators who would overload.
Let's see what our calculation would look like if we overloaded the addition multiplication and division
operators.
Here you can see that our user defined number class now looks and feels and behaves like the built in
C++ types.
Operator overloading is syntactic sugar.
Behind the scenes we're still calling methods or functions.
We'll see how it all works in the next video.
So what operators can be overloaded.
Well C++ allows you to overload most of its operators.
There are a few exceptions and they're listed in the table.
We can't overload the scope resolution operator.
The conditional operator the pointer to member operator the dot operator and the size of operator.
Remember just because an operator can be overloaded doesn't mean you should don't overload it unless
it makes sense and makes your code more usable more readable and more readable.
So as always there are some basic rules that must be followed when you're overloading operators.
First the precedence and associativity of the operator that you're overloading cannot be changed.
This makes perfect sense since C++ programmers are already familiar with the precedence and associativity
of its operators.
The error of an operator cannot be changed.
So if an operator is a binary operator which means that it's applied to two arguments then this can't
be changed.
C++ does not allow you to change the way that the current operators work with the built in types.
C++ doesn't allow you create new operators that are not currently used by C++ and finally C++ allows
you to overload operators using global functions or member methods.
However there are several operators that must be implemented as member methods as you can see.
Notice that the assignment operator must be implemented as a member method.
Let's wrap up this video by looking at some examples we're operator overloading could be used the left
column shows examples of using operators with the built in types.
For example we can use plus an equals for addition of integers doubles and mongs and assignment.
We also use the insertion operator with many built in types so that we can easily insert values into
streams.
Now take a look at the right call them.
Here we have examples of using operators on user defined types.
The first is stood strain.
We can use the plus operator to concatenate strings and we can compare strings using less than greater
than less than or equal to and so forth in this section we're going to create our own version of a string
class named my string.
And we want to be able to overload some operators to concatenate strings compare them assign them and
so forth.
The last example is the player class.
Does it make sense to overload operators for the player class.
Maybe it depends on what we're trying to achieve.
For example suppose we want to compare two player objects P1 and P2.
We might only care about their health attribute and this would do just that.
What about comparing to player objects with the equality operator.
Are we comparing names.
Health XP.
All of those attributes are just some of them.
That's one of the issues with overloading operators.
We can make the operator mean anything we want.
So we want to make sure that when we do overload operators it makes sense and the users of the class
know about it.
Finally it would make sense to overload the stream insertion operator so that we can insert player objects
into a stream.
So let's look at the class that we'll be using in this section of the course.
We're going to add overloaded operators to this basic class called my string my string models a string
and were implemented behind the scenes using a Rossie style pointer.
I chose to include a raw pointer because that would allow us more practice with our copy and move constructors.
And we'll also have to think about copy and move assignment when we overload the assignment operator.
Right now the class contains no args constructor.
A constructor that expects a C-style string or literal a copy constructor a destructor a display method
that displays the string and to getter methods the first one returns the current length of the string
and the other returns a pointer to the string.
That's it.
At this point in the course you should start feeling pretty comfortable when you see a class declaration
such as this.
Now let's head over to the idea and we'll take a closer look at this class and how it's implement so
that it's clear what it does.
Before we extend it by overloading operators.
OK so now I mean the IDM in the section 14 workspace.
I'm in the my string Dasch start project this project really doesn't do much.
It's just the beginning project that initially implements that my string class that we're going to extend
throughout but I want to take a few minutes to go over that class to make sure that you 100 percent
understand it.
And I encourage you to walk through it set some breakpoints step through it using the debugger and be
sure you really really understand what's going on in this class.
The idea with this class is that I want to model strings.
Now we already have a standard string class I know.
Let's do it ourselves that when we really really learn how to implement one of these things.
So what we're going to do is we're going to create our own my string class.
And here's an example of how you would use it in a man here I'm creating empty which is just an empty
string object is going to call and no args constructor.
Here I'm going to create Larry which again is a String object.
And I'm going to initialize it to that string Larry using an overloaded constructor and then finally
I've got to another my string called stooge and I'm initialising with Larry so there we have a copy
constructor call and then all I'm doing is calling the display method for each one of those objects
which is going to display empty string Larry.
And Larry again since we copied it.
OK.
So let's take a look at the class.
This is the same class that I showed you on the slides a minute ago.
What we're doing here is we've got our mindstream class you can see it right up here and we're implementing
a string behind the scenes as a pointer to a character is basically the way a C-style string works.
Now we could have done this a lot of different ways.
I chose to do it this way that way we can play around with raw pointers a little bit more understand
the copy constructor understand the move constructor which will will do soon and understand the assignment
operators.
We've got a destructor we've got the display method that displays the contents of this string basically
the string itself and its length.
And then we've got a couple of getters.
OK so let's go through these and see how they're implemented and I'll walk you through a couple of examples.
And let's take a look at my string.
OK so here you can see that I'm using behind the scenes the C string library which I need.
I've got IO stream simply because I'm doing some output.
And here is my string that H I need to include that because this is what I'm implementing right.
That's my spec Here's my implementation.
So here's my no args constructor you can see it right here.
Remember the no args constructor gets called when it's code like this executes the semi string and let's
say just a right so we're providing no construction information here.
So the no arms constructor gets called you can see it expects nothing.
And what we're doing here is we're creating an object called a and this is put a right here.
This is that object.
It's just a blob right now and it has in it a pointer called s tr so and we really care about now if
we create an empty object we could simply set that pointer to a null pointer and we're done with it.
I don't want to do that.
I want to set an empty string to an empty string that looks like that in other words a single character
with the null terminator in it rather than a null pointer.
That just makes it easier later if we ever display or or print out an empty string it'll be fine.
We don't have to check for null pointers later.
So what are we going to do here.
But we're going to allocate space for one character.
Notice the brackets they're important here because we're going to delete characters in that manner as
well.
Someone allocate one character.
Remember all this is happening on the heap.
This is happening on the stack and I'm going to assign that address to as TR so as to are pointing there.
No I'm doing is dereferencing the pointer and putting that Terminator in there that's my empty string.
If you try to display this it will just display nothing.
OK so that's my no args constructor.
Now let's take a look at the overloaded constructor here that expects a seesaw string right or a string
literal.
So in this case this will be called with statements like this my string Let's call this again this is
a again and we'll just say hello noticed the quotes and the Curley's at this point you can see what's
being passed in so this constructor matches.
And this is the country is constructed it executes in this case I'm checking to see if by any chance
somebody sent a little pointer here if they did I'm just going to create an empty string just going
to double check that just to be safe.
Normally this else is going to execute and I'll show you what's going on here.
Again we're going to create that object is right here.
It's got an attribute called S.
TR That's the only attribute it has actually.
And what we're going to do is we're going to allocate this many characters on the heap.
How many characters is that.
Well I'm going to figure out what the length of Halo is right.
That's what S's s is.
Hello I want to figure out what's the length of s n add 1 to it because I need an extra character for
that Terminator.
Well the C string functions in C string right here there's one called as Charland that does exactly
that.
So what I'm doing is I'm just calling stood as TR Len which is going to return five men at one to it
and when allocate six characters on the heap m. one accosted string copy to copy s to as TR.
So at this point it's going to copy Hello here.
It's going to put the null terminator.
Those are my six characters and I'm going to point to it.
So you can see I've indeed made a copy.
OK.
We never messed with hello because it's Konst and it's not mine.
So I don't want to mess with it.
OK so now let's make a copy constructor.
Let's go through that real quick and you can see it defined right here on line 25 right here.
Now when does a copy constructor get called well.
Remember we've got an existing object and I want to copy it and construct a new object from a.
This is not an assignment.
It's a construction.
So what I've got is let's say I've got that string object again my string
and let's call it a and we'll use Hello again.
So there's that object.
Now I want to create a new object.
I'll just say my string will call it B and I want to create it based on a.
So there's my copy.
That's my copy constructor being called.
Also a copy constructor as you know gets called if you pass of an object by value to a function.
Lots of different places.
So let's see what's going on here.
In this case this refers to the object that I'm creating and source is that guy right there.
So source in this case is that a.
Object Hello.
Make sense.
Good.
So I'm creating the object I'm setting as TR Right.
So here is that new object I'm creating.
It doesn't even have a name yet but let's just call it this because it's being pointed to by that pointer.
It's got as TR again just like before.
And what I want to do is I want to copy that.
Hello to this guy and I want to do a deep copy I don't want to share this.
So what do I do.
Well again I want to allocate space how much space the length of that source objects string right a
dot as TR In this case which would be hello.
So five plus one is six again and then allocate six characters on the heap.
Remember these are unnamed it's all in the heap.
Then I'm going to do an A.
And again I used stood start string length to do that.
Now I'm going to do a string copy to copy the source string to the string again a DB copy.
So in this case I'm copying over Hello the null terminator and this guy's pointing to that.
That's it.
So that's where we're at right now.
The rest of the functions you shouldn't have any issues with at this point in the course.
Let's go through them anyway.
Here's my destructor obviously remember this.
You're responsible for deallocating the memory that you allocate so I have allocated some memory in
the constructors.
I've got to be sure to deallocated in the destructor and that's exactly what I'm doing here.
I've got a display method.
This is a member method and the display member method just simply displays the string which is a C-style
string and the length separated by colon.
And then I've got some getters one just returns the length of the string which I'm determining every
time dynamically and masking what the string length is.
We could have had let me just come back and the ME did as well first.
And the string returns a pointer.
So I can pretend it returns it as a contest.
We could have added another attribute here called length and we could have maintained that length of
that string all along but chose not to do that.
I'm just going to keep it as simple as we can and that's it.
So let's take a look at the main and we'll run it.
There's my name.
You mean empty my string create Larry and then copy Larry.
So when I run this you see the run says display the empty string and it's displayed right here obviously
it's empty and it's like the 0 displayed Larry.
There's Larry and its length is five and there is stooge.
It should be Larry because I use the copy constructor again.
Did a deep copy.
And there's a five.
OK.
So that's it.
That runs through this program as I said you may want to step through it until you become really really
comfortable with it.
It's a very very straightforward program.
It's Cup.
It's using everything that we've learned so far and what we're going to do now is start by overloading
the assignment operators.